Or the still heat, when on his noonday bed
The breathless blue sea sank without a wave!....

The fourth river
goes out on the opposite side, and falls first of all into a wild and
savage region, which is all of a dark-blue colour, like lapis lazuli;
and this is that river which is called the Stygian river, and falls into
and forms the Lake Styx, and after falling into the lake and receiving
strange powers in the waters, passes under the earth, winding round
in the opposite direction, and comes near the Acherusian lake from the
opposite side to Pyriphlegethon.

Minerva sent them a fair wind from
the West, {22} that whistled over the deep blue waves {23} whereon
Telemachus told them to catch hold of the ropes and hoist sail, and they
did as he told them. They set the mast in its socket in the cross plank,
raised it, and made it fast with the forestays; then they hoisted their
white sails aloft with ropes of twisted ox hide.

As the sail bellied out
with the wind, the ship flew through the deep blue water, and the foam
hissed against her bows as she sped onward.

With these
words she took off her veil and gave it him. Then she dived down again
like a sea-gull and vanished beneath the dark blue waters.

The walls on either side were of bronze from end to end, and the
cornice was of blue enamel.

Once when she
was taking a walk by his side as usual, Neptune, disguised as her lover,
lay with her at the mouth of the river, and a huge blue wave arched
itself like a mountain over them to hide both woman and god, whereon he
loosed her virgin girdle and laid her in a deep slumber.

On the one hand there are some overhanging rocks against which
the deep blue waves of Amphitrite beat with terrific fury; the blessed
gods call these rocks the Wanderers.

Her prow curvetted as it were
the neck of a stallion, and a great wave of dark blue water seethed in
her wake.

On this Minerva came close up to him and said, "Son of Arceisius---best
friend I have in the world--pray to the blue-eyed damsel, and to Jove
her father; then poise your spear and hurl it."

The racing drivers
used to adopt one of four colours--red, blue, white, or green--and their
partisans showed an eagerness in supporting them which nothing could
surpass.

These were called Factiones, and each had its distinguishing
colour: russata (red), albata (white), veneta (blue), prasina (green).

Blue-eyed Athene is its guard,
And Morian Zeus its sleepless ward.

(Singing) who dost reign
  Amongst the Aegean peaks and creeks
  And o'er the deep blue main.

But he to the blue upflew, upflew,
    On the lightliest tips of his wings outspread;
    To me he bequeathed but woe, but woe,
    And tears, sad tears, from my eyes o'erflow,
    Which I, the bereaved, must shed, must shed.

CADMUS (_after hesitation, resolving himself_)
   Raise me thine eyes to yon blue dome of air!

