The Project Gutenberg EBook of The New Atlantis, by Frances Bacon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The New Atlantis

Author: Frances Bacon

Posting Date: October 23, 2008 [EBook #2434]
Release Date: December 2000

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NEW ATLANTIS ***




Produced by Michael Pullen and William Fishburne. HTML
version by Al Haines.










THE NEW ATLANTIS


BY

SIR FRANCIS BACON




INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Bacon's literary executor, Dr. Rowley, published "The New Atlantis" in
1627, the year after the author's death.  It seems to have been written
about 1623, during that period of literary activity which followed
Bacon's political fall.  None of Bacon's writings gives in short apace
so vivid a picture of his tastes and aspirations as this fragment of
the plan of an ideal commonwealth.  The generosity and enlightenment,
the dignity and splendor, the piety and public spirit, of the
inhabitants of Bensalem represent the ideal qualities which Bacon the
statesman desired rather than hoped to see characteristic of his own
country; and in Solomon's House we have Bacon the scientist indulging
without restriction his prophetic vision of the future of human
knowledge.  No reader acquainted in any degree with the processes and
results of modern scientific inquiry can fail to be struck by the
numerous approximations made by Bacon's imagination to the actual
achievements of modern times.  The plan and organization of his great
college lay down the main lines of the modern research university; and
both in pure and applied science he anticipates a strikingly large
number of recent inventions and discoveries.  In still another way is
"The New Atlantis" typical of Bacon's attitude. In spite of the
enthusiastic and broad-minded schemes he laid down for the pursuit of
truth, Bacon always had an eye to utility.  The advancement of science
which he sought was conceived by him as a means to a practical end the
increase of man's control over nature, and the comfort and convenience
of humanity.  For pure metaphysics, or any form of abstract thinking
that yielded no "fruit," he had little interest; and this leaning to
the useful is shown in the practical applications of the discoveries
made by the scholars of Solomon's House.  Nor does the interest of the
work stop here.  It contains much, both in its political and in its
scientific ideals, that we have as yet by no means achieved, but which
contain valuable elements of suggestion and stimulus for the future.





THE NEW ATLANTIS

We sailed from Peru, (where we had continued for the space of one whole
year) for China and Japan, by the South Sea; taking with us victuals
for twelve months; and had good winds from the east, though soft and
weak, for five months space, and more.  But the wind came about, and
settled in the west for many days, so as we could make little or no
way, and were sometime in purpose to turn back.  But then again there
arose strong and great winds from the south, with a point east, which
carried us up (for all that we could do) towards the north; by which
time our victuals failed us, though we had made good spare of them.  So
that finding ourselves, in the midst of the greatest wilderness of
waters in the world, without victuals, we gave ourselves for lost men
and prepared for death.  Yet we did lift up our hearts and voices to
God above, who showeth his wonders in the deep, beseeching him of his
mercy, that as in the beginning he discovered the face of the deep, and
brought forth dry land, so he would now discover land to us, that we
might not perish.

And it came to pass that the next day about evening we saw within a
kenning before us, towards the north, as it were thick clouds, which
did put us in some hope of land; knowing how that part of the South Sea
was utterly unknown; and might have islands, or continents, that
hitherto were not come to light.  Wherefore we bent our course thither,
where we saw the appearance of land, all that night; and in the dawning
of the next day, we might plainly discern that it was a land; flat to
our sight, and full of boscage; which made it show the more dark.  And
after an hour and a half's sailing, we entered into a good haven, being
the port of a fair city; not great indeed, but well built, and that
gave a pleasant view from the sea: and we thinking every minute long,
till we were on land, came close to the shore, and offered to land.
But straightways we saw divers of the people, with bastons in their
hands (as it were) forbidding us to land; yet without any cries of
fierceness, but only as warning us off, by signs that they made.
Whereupon being not a little discomforted, we were advising with
ourselves, what we should do.

During which time, there made forth to us a small boat, with about
eight persons in it; whereof one of them had in his hand a tipstaff of
a yellow cane, tipped at both ends with blue, who came aboard our ship,
without any show of distrust at all.  And when he saw one of our
number, present himself somewhat before the rest, he drew forth a
little scroll of parchment (somewhat yellower than our parchment, and
shining like the leaves of writing tables, but otherwise soft and
flexible,) and delivered it to our foremost man.  In which scroll were
written in ancient Hebrew, and in ancient Greek, and in good Latin of
the school, and in Spanish, these words: Land ye not, none of you; and
provide to be gone from this coast, within sixteen days, except you
have further time given you.  Meanwhile, if you want fresh water or
victuals, or help for your sick, or that your ship needeth repairs,
write down your wants, and you shall have that, which belongeth to
mercy.  This scroll was signed with a stamp of cherubim: wings, not
spread, but hanging downwards; and by them a cross.  This being
delivered, the officer returned, and left only a servant with us to
receive our answer.

Consulting hereupon amongst ourselves, we were much perplexed.  The
denial of landing and hasty warning us away troubled us much; on the
other side, to find that the people had languages, and were so full of
humanity, did comfort us not a little.  And above all, the sign of the
cross to that instrument was to us a great rejoicing, and as it were a
certain presage of good.  Our answer was in the Spanish tongue; that
for our ship, it was well; for we had rather met with calms and
contrary winds than any tempests.  For our sick, they were many, and in
very ill case; so that if they were not permitted to land, they ran
danger of their lives.  Our other wants we set down in particular;
adding, That we had some little store of merchandise, which if it
pleased them to deal for, it might supply our wants, without being
chargeable unto them.  We offered some reward in pistolets unto the
servant, and a piece of crimson velvet to be presented to the officer;
but the servant took them not, nor would scarce look upon them; and so
left us, and went back in another little boat, which was sent for him.

About three hours after we had dispatched our answer, there came
towards us a person (as it seemed) of place.  He had on him a gown with
wide sleeves, of a kind of water chamolet, of an excellent azure
colour, fair more glossy than ours; his under apparel was green; and so
was his hat, being in the form of a turban, daintily made, and not so
huge as the Turkish turbans; and the locks of his hair came down below
the brims of it.  A reverend man was he to behold.  He came in a boat,
gilt in some part of it, with four persons more only in that boat; and
was followed by another boat, wherein were some twenty. When he was
come within a flightshot of our ship, signs were made to us, that we
should send forth some to meet him upon the water; which we presently
did in our ship-boat, sending the principal man amongst us save one,
and four of our number with him.

When we were come within six yards of their boat, they called to us to
stay, and not to approach farther; which we did.  And thereupon the
man, whom I before described, stood up, and with a loud voice, in
Spanish, asked, "Are ye Christians?"  We answered, "We were;" fearing
the less, because of the cross we had seen in the subscription.  At
which answer the said person lifted up his right hand towards Heaven,
and drew it softly to his mouth (which is the gesture they use, when
they thank God;) and then said: "If ye will swear (all of you) by the
merits of the Saviour, that ye are no pirates, nor have shed blood,
lawfully, nor unlawfully within forty days past, you may have licence
to come on land."  We said, "We were all ready to take that oath."
Whereupon one of those that were with him, being (as it seemed) a
notary, made an entry of this act.  Which done, another of the
attendants of the great person which was with him in the same boat,
after his Lord had spoken a little to him, said aloud: "My Lord would
have you know, that it is not of pride, or greatness, that he cometh
not aboard your ship; but for that in your answer you declare that you
have many sick amongst you, he was warned by the Conservator of Health
of the city that he should keep a distance."  We bowed ourselves
towards him, and answered, "We were his humble servants; and accounted
for great honour, and singular humanity towards us, that which was
already done; but hoped well, that the nature of the sickness of our
men was not infectious."  So he returned; and a while after came the
Notary to us aboard our ship; holding in his hand a fruit of that
country, like an orange, but of color between orange-tawney and
scarlet; which cast a most excellent odour.  He used it (as it seemeth)
for a preservative against infection.  He gave us our oath; "By the
name of Jesus, and his merits:" and after told us, that the next day,
by six of the Clock, in the Morning, we should be sent to, and brought
to the Strangers' House, (so he called it,) where we should be
accommodated of things, both for our whole, and for our sick. So he
left us; and when we offered him some pistolets, he smiling said, "He
must not be twice paid for one labour:" meaning (as I take it) that he
had salary sufficient of the State for his service.  For (as I after
learned) they call an officer that taketh rewards, "twice paid."

The next morning early, there came to us the same officer that came to
us at first with his cane, and told us, He came to conduct us to the
Strangers' House; and that he had prevented the hour, because we might
have the whole day before us, for our business.  "For," said he, "if
you will follow my advice, there shall first go with me some few of
you, and see the place, and how it may be made convenient for you; and
then you may send for your sick, and the rest of your number, which ye
will bring on land."  We thanked him, and said, "That this care, which
he took of desolate strangers, God would reward."  And so six of us
went on land with him: and when we were on land, he went before us, and
turned to us, and said, "He was but our servant, and our guide." He led
us through three fair streets; and all the way we went, there were
gathered some people on both sides, standing in a row; but in so civil
a fashion, as if it had been, not to wonder at us, but to welcome us:
and divers of them, as we passed by them, put their arms a little
abroad; which is their gesture, when they did bid any welcome.

The Strangers' House is a fair and spacious house, built of brick, of
somewhat a bluer colour than our brick; and with handsome windows, some
of glass, some of a kind of cambric oiled.  He brought us first into a
fair parlour above stairs, and then asked us, "What number of persons
we were?  And how many sick?"  We answered, "We were in all, (sick and
whole,) one and fifty persons, whereof our sick were seventeen."  He
desired us to have patience a little, and to stay till he came back to
us; which was about an hour after; and then he led us to see the
chambers which were provided for us, being in number nineteen: they
having cast it (as it seemeth) that four of those chambers, which were
better than the rest, might receive four of the principal men of our
company; and lodge them alone by themselves; and the other fifteen
chambers were to lodge us two and two together.  The chambers were
handsome and cheerful chambers, and furnished civilly. Then he led us
to a long gallery, like a dorture, where he showed us all along the one
side (for the other side was but wall and window), seventeen cells,
very neat ones, having partitions of cedar wood. Which gallery and
cells, being in all forty, many more than we needed, were instituted as
an infirmary for sick persons.  And he told us withal, that as any of
our sick waxed well, he might be removed from his cell, to a chamber;
for which purpose there were set forth ten spare chambers, besides the
number we spake of before.  This done, he brought us back to the
parlour, and lifting up his cane a little, (as they do when they give
any charge or command) said to us, "Ye are to know, that the custom of
the land requireth, that after this day and to-morrow, (which we give
you for removing of your people from your ship,) you are to keep within
doors for three days.  But let it not trouble you, nor do not think
yourselves restrained, but rather left to your rest and ease.  You
shall want nothing, and there are six of our people appointed to attend
you, for any business you may have abroad."  We gave him thanks, with
all affection and respect, and said, "God surely is manifested in this
land."  We offered him also twenty pistolets; but he smiled, and only
said; "What? twice paid!"  And so he left us.

Soon after our dinner was served in; which was right good viands, both
for bread and treat: better than any collegiate diet, that I have known
in Europe.  We had also drink of three sorts, all wholesome and good;
wine of the grape; a drink of grain, such as is with us our ale, but
more clear: And a kind of cider made of a fruit of that country; a
wonderful pleasing and refreshing drink.  Besides, there were brought
in to us, great store of those scarlet oranges, for our sick; which
(they said) were an assured remedy for sickness taken at sea.  There
was given us also, a box of small gray, or whitish pills, which they
wished our sick should take, one of the pills, every night before
sleep; which (they said) would hasten their recovery.

The next day, after that our trouble of carriage and removing of our
men and goods out of our ship, was somewhat settled and quiet, I
thought good to call our company together; and when they were
assembled, said unto them; "My dear friends, let us know ourselves, and
how it standeth with us.  We are men cast on land, as Jonas was, out of
the whale's belly, when we were as buried in the deep: and now we are
on land, we are but between death and life; for we are beyond, both the
old world, and the new; and whether ever we shall see Europe, God only
knoweth.  It is a kind of miracle bath brought us hither: and it must
be little less, that shall bring us hence.  Therefore in regard of our
deliverance past, and our danger present, and to come, let us look up
to God, and every man reform his own ways.  Besides we are come here
amongst a Christian people, full of piety and humanity: let us not
bring that confusion of face upon ourselves, as to show our vices, or
unworthiness before them.  Yet there is more.  For they have by
commandment, (though in form of courtesy) cloistered us within these
wall, for three days: who knoweth, whether it be not, to take some
taste of our manners and conditions?  And if they find them bad, to
banish us straightways; if good, to give us further time.  For these
men that they have given us for attendance, may withal have an eye upon
us.  Therefore for God's love, and as we love the weal of our souls and
bodies, let us so behave ourselves, as we may be at peace with God, and
may find grace in the eyes of this people."  Our company with one voice
thanked me for my good admonition, and promised me to live soberly and
civilly, and without giving any the least occasion of offence.  So we
spent our three days joyfully, and without care, in expectation what
would be done with us, when they were expired. During which time, we
had every hour joy of the amendment of our sick; who thought themselves
cast into some divine pool of healing; they mended so kindly, and so
fast.

The morrow after our three days were past, there came to us a new man,
that we had not seen before, clothed in blue as the former was, save
that his turban was white, with a small red cross on the top.  He had
also a tippet of fine linen.  At his coming in, he did bend to us a
little, and put his arms abroad.  We of our parts saluted him in a very
lowly and submissive manner; as looking that from him, we should
receive sentence of life, or death: he desired to speak with some few
of us: whereupon six of us only staid, and the rest avoided the room.
He said, "I am by office governor of this House of Strangers, and by
vocation I am a Christian priest: and therefore am come to you to offer
you my service, both as strangers and chiefly as Christians. Some
things I may tell you, which I think you will not be unwilling to hear.
The State hath given you license to stay on land, for the space of six
weeks; and let it not trouble you, if your occasions ask further time,
for the law in this point is not precise; and I do not doubt, but my
self shall be able, to obtain for you such further time, as may be
convenient.  Ye shall also understand, that the Strangers' House is at
this time rich, and much aforehand; for it hath laid up revenue these
thirty-seven years; for so long it is since any stranger arrived in
this part: and therefore take ye no care; the State will defray you all
the time you stay; neither shall you stay one day the less for that.
As for any merchandise ye have brought, ye shall be well used, and have
your return, either in merchandise, or in gold and silver: for to us it
is all one.  And if you have any other request to make, hide it not.
For ye shall find we will not make your countenance to fall by the
answer ye shall receive.  Only this I must tell you, that none of you
must go above a karan," (that is with them a mile and an half) "from
the walls of the city, without especial leave."

We answered, after we had looked awhile one upon another, admiring this
gracious and parent-like usage; "That we could not tell what to say:
for we wanted words to express our thanks; and his noble free offers
left us nothing to ask.  It seemed to us, that we had before us a
picture of our salvation in Heaven; for we that were a while since in
the jaws of death, were now brought into a place, where we found
nothing but consolations.  For the commandment laid upon us, we would
not fail to obey it, though it was impossible but our hearts should be
enflamed to tread further upon this happy and holy ground."  We added,
"That our tongues should first cleave to the roofs of our mouths, ere
we should forget, either his reverend person, or this whole nation, in
our prayers."  We also most humbly besought him, to accept of us as his
true servants; by as just a right as ever men on earth were bounden;
laying and presenting, both our persons, and all we had, at his feet.
He said; "He was a priest, and looked for a priest's reward; which was
our brotherly love, and the good of our souls and bodies." So he went
from us, not without tears of tenderness in his eyes; and left us also
confused with joy and kindness, saying amongst ourselves; "That we were
come into a land of angels, which did appear to us daily, and prevent
us with comforts, which we thought not of, much less expected."

The next day about ten of the clock, the Governor came to us again, and
after salutations, said familiarly; "That he was come to visit us;" and
called for a chair, and sat him down: and we, being some ten of us,
(the rest were of the meaner sort, or else gone abroad,) sat down with
him, And when we were set, he began thus: "We of this island of
Bensalem," (for so they call it in their language,) "have this; that by
means of our solitary situation; and of the laws of secrecy, which we
have for our travellers, and our rare admission of strangers; we know
well most part of the habitable world, and are ourselves unknown.
Therefore because he that knoweth least is fittest to ask questions, it
is more reason, for the entertainment of the time, that ye ask me
questions, than that I ask you."

We answered; "That we humbly thanked him that he would give us leave so
to do: and that we conceived by the taste we had already, that there
was no worldly thing on earth, more worthy to be known than the state
of that happy land.  But above all," (we said,) "since that we were met
from the several ends of the world, and hoped assuredly that we should
meet one day in the kingdom of Heaven, (for that we were both parts
Christians,) we desired to know, (in respect that land was so remote,
and so divided by vast and unknown seas, from the land where our
Saviour walked on earth,) who was the apostle of that nation, and how
it was converted to the faith?"  It appeared in his face that he took
great contentment in this our question: he said; "Ye knit my heart to
you, by asking this question in the first place; for it sheweth that
you first seek the kingdom of heaven; and I shall gladly, and briefly,
satisfy your demand.

"About twenty years after the ascension of our Saviour, it came to
pass, that there was seen by the people of Renfusa, (a city upon the
eastern coast of our island,) within night, (the night was cloudy, and
calm,) as it might be some mile into the sea, a great pillar of light;
not sharp, but in form of a column, or cylinder, rising from the sea a
great way up towards heaven; and on the top of it was seen a large
cross of light, more bright and resplendent than the body of the
pillar.  Upon which so strange a spectacle, the people of the city
gathered apace together upon the sands, to wonder; and so after put
themselves into a number of small boats, to go nearer to this
marvellous sight.  But when the boats were come within (about) sixty
yards of the pillar, they found themselves all bound, and could go no
further; yet so as they might move to go about, but might not approach
nearer: so as the boats stood all as in a theatre, beholding this light
as an heavenly sign.  It so fell out, that there was in one of the
boats one of the wise men, of the society of Salomon's House; which
house, or college (my good brethren) is the very eye of this kingdom;
who having awhile attentively and devoutly viewed and contemplated this
pillar and cross, fell down upon his face; and then raised himself upon
his knees, and lifting up his hands to heaven, made his prayers in this
manner.

"'LORD God of heaven and earth, thou hast vouchsafed of thy grace to
those of our order, to know thy works of Creation, and the secrets of
them: and to discern (as far as appertaineth to the generations of men)
between divine miracles, works of nature, works of art, and impostures
and illusions of all sorts.  I do here acknowledge and testify before
this people, that the thing which we now see before our eyes is thy
Finger and a true Miracle.  And forasmuch as we learn in our books that
thou never workest miracles, but to divine and excellent end, (for the
laws of nature are thine own laws, and thou exceedest them not but upon
great cause,) we most humbly beseech thee to prosper this great sign,
and to give us the interpretation and use of it in mercy; which thou
dost in some part secretly promise by sending it unto us.'

"When he had made his prayer, he presently found the boat he was in,
moveable and unbound; whereas all the rest remained still fast; and
taking that for an assurance of leave to approach, he caused the boat
to be softly and with silence rowed towards the pillar.  But ere he
came near it, the pillar and cross of light brake up, and cast itself
abroad, as it were, into a firmament of many stars; which also vanished
soon after, and there was nothing left to be seen, but a small ark, or
chest of cedar, dry, and not wet at all with water, though it swam.
And in the fore-end of it, which was towards him, grew a small green
branch of palm; and when the wise man had taken it, with all reverence,
into his boat, it opened of itself, and there were found in it a Book
and a Letter; both written in fine parchment, and wrapped in sindons of
linen.  The Book contained all the canonical books of the Old and New
Testament, according as you have them; (for we know well what the
churches with you receive); and the Apocalypse itself, and some other
books of the New Testament, which were not at that time written, were
nevertheless in the Book.  And for the Letter, it was in these words:

"'I, Bartholomew, a servant of the Highest, and Apostle of Jesus
Christ, was warned by an angel that appeareth to me, in a vision of
glory, that I should commit this ark to the floods of the sea.
Therefore I do testify and declare unto that people where God shall
ordain this ark to come to land, that in the same day is come unto them
salvation and peace and good-will, from the Father, and from the Lord
Jesus.'

"There was also in both these writings, as well the Book, as the
Letter, wrought a great miracle, conform to that of the Apostles, in
the original Gift of Tongues.  For there being at that time in this
land Hebrews, Persians, and Indians, besides the natives, every one
read upon the Book, and Letter, as if they had been written in his own
language.  And thus was this land saved from infidelity (as the
remainder of the old world was from water) by an ark, through the
apostolical and miraculous evangelism of Saint Bartholomew."  And here
he paused, and a messenger came, and called him from us.  So this was
all that passed in that conference.

The next day, the same governor came again to us, immediately after
dinner, and excused himself, saying; "That the day before he was called
from us, somewhat abruptly, but now he would make us amends, and spend
time with us if we held his company and conference agreeable." We
answered, "That we held it so agreeable and pleasing to us, as we
forgot both dangers past and fears to come, for the time we hear him
speak; and that we thought an hour spent with him, was worth years of
our former life."  He bowed himself a little to us, and after we were
set again, he said; "Well, the questions are on your part."

One of our number said, after a little pause; that there was a matter,
we were no less desirous to know, than fearful to ask, lest we might
presume too far.  But encouraged by his rare humanity towards us, (that
could scarce think ourselves strangers, being his vowed and professed
servants,) we would take the hardiness to propound it: humbly
beseeching him, if he thought it not fit to be answered, that he would
pardon it, though he rejected it.  We said; "We well observed those his
words, which he formerly spake, that this happy island, where we now
stood, was known to few, and yet knew most of the nations of the world;
which we found to be true, considering they had the languages of
Europe, and knew much of our state and business; and yet we in Europe,
(notwithstanding all the remote discoveries and navigations of this
last age), never heard of the least inkling or glimpse of this island.
This we found wonderful strange; for that all nations have
inter-knowledge one of another, either by voyage into foreign parts, or
by strangers that come to them: and though the traveller into a foreign
country, doth commonly know more by the eye, than he that stayeth at
home can by relation of the traveller; yet both ways suffice to make a
mutual knowledge, in some degree, on both parts.  But for this island,
we never heard tell of any ship of theirs that had been seen to arrive
upon any shore of Europe; nor of either the East or West Indies; nor
yet of any ship of any other part of the world, that had made return
from them.  And yet the marvel rested not in this.  For the situation
of it (as his lordship said) in the secret conclave' of such a vast sea
might cause it.  But then, that they should have knowledge of the
languages, books, affairs, of those that lie such a distance from them,
it was a thing we could not tell what to make of; for that it seemed to
us a conditioner and propriety of divine powers and beings, to be
hidden and unseen to others, and yet to have others open and as in a
light to them."

At this speech the Governor gave a gracious smile, and said; "That we
did well to ask pardon for this question we now asked: for that it
imported, as if we thought this land, a land of magicians, that sent
forth spirits of the air into all parts, to bring them news and
intelligence of other countries."  It was answered by us all, in all
possible humbleness, but yet with a countenance taking knowledge, that
we knew that he spake it but merrily, "That we were apt enough to think
there was somewhat supernatural in this island; but yet rather as
angelical than magical.  But to let his lordship know truly what it was
that made us tender and doubtful to ask this question, it was not any
such conceit, but because we remembered, he had given a touch in his
former speech, that this land had laws of secrecy touching strangers."
To this he said; "You remember it aright and therefore in that I shall
say to you, I must reserve some particulars, which it is not lawful for
me to reveal; but there will be enough left, to give you satisfaction."

"You shall understand (that which perhaps you will scarce think
credible) that about three thousand years ago, or somewhat more, the
navigation of the world, (especially for remote voyages,) was greater
than at this day.  Do not think with yourselves, that I know not how
much it is increased with you, within these six-score years: I know it
well: and yet I say greater then than now; whether it was, that the
example of the ark, that saved the remnant of men from the universal
deluge, gave men confidence to adventure upon the waters; or what it
was; but such is the truth.  The Phoenicians, and especially the
Tyrians, had great fleets.  So had the Carthaginians their colony,
which is yet further west.  Toward the east the shipping of Egypt and
of Palestine was likewise great.  China also, and the great Atlantis,
(that you call America,) which have now but junks and canoes, abounded
then in tall ships.  This island, (as appeareth by faithful registers
of those times,) had then fifteen hundred strong ships, of great
content.  Of all this, there is with you sparing memory, or none; but
we have large knowledge thereof.

"At that time, this land was known and frequented by the ships and
vessels of all the nations before named.  And (as it cometh to pass)
they had many times men of other countries, that were no sailors, that
came with them; as Persians, Chaldeans, Arabians; so as almost all
nations of might and fame resorted hither; of whom we have some stirps,
and little tribes with us at this day.  And for our own ships, they
went sundry voyages, as well to your straits, which you call the
Pillars of Hercules, as to other parts in the Atlantic and Mediterrane
Seas; as to Paguin, (which is the same with Cambaline,) and Quinzy,
upon the Oriental Seas, as far as to the borders of the East Tartary.

"At the same time, and an age after, or more, the inhabitants of the
great Atlantis did flourish.  For though the narration and description,
which is made by a great man with you; that the descendants of Neptune
planted there; and of the magnificent temple, palace, city, and hill;
and the manifold streams of goodly navigable rivers, (which as so many
chains environed the same site and temple); and the several degrees of
ascent, whereby men did climb up to the same, as if it had been a scala
coeli, be all poetical and fabulous: yet so much is true, that the said
country of Atlantis, as well that of Peru, then called Coya, as that of
Mexico, then named Tyrambel, were mighty and proud kingdoms in arms,
shipping and riches: so mighty, as at one time (or at least within the
space of ten years) they both made two great expeditions; they of
Tyrambel through the Atlantic to the Mediterrane Sea; and they of Coya
through the South Sea upon this our island: and for the former of
these, which was into Europe, the same author amongst you (as it
seemeth) had some relation from the Egyptian priest whom he cited.  For
assuredly such a thing there was.  But whether it were the ancient
Athenians that had the glory of the repulse and resistance of those
forces, I can say nothing: but certain it is, there never came back
either ship or man from that voyage.  Neither had the other voyage of
those of Coya upon us had better fortune, if they had not met with
enemies of greater clemency.  For the king of this island, (by name
Altabin,) a wise man and a great warrior, knowing well both his own
strength and that of his enemies, handled the matter so, as he cut off
their land-forces from their ships; and entoiled both their navy and
their tamp with a greater power than theirs, both by sea and land: arid
compelled them to render themselves without striking stroke and after
they were at his mercy, contenting himself only with their oath that
they should no more bear arms against him, dismissed them all in safety.

"But the divine revenge overtook not long after those proud
enterprises.  For within less than the space of one hundred years, the
great Atlantis was utterly lost and destroyed: not by a great
earthquake, as your man saith; (for that whole tract is little subject
to earthquakes;) but by a particular' deluge or inundation; those
countries having, at this day, far greater rivers and far higher
mountains to pour down waters, than any part of the old world.  But it
is true that the same inundation was not deep; not past forty foot, in
most places, from the ground; so that although it destroyed man and
beast generally, yet some few wild inhabitants of the wood escaped.
Birds also were saved by flying to the high trees and woods.  For as
for men, although they had buildings in many places, higher than the
depth of the water, yet that inundation, though it were shallow, had a
long continuance; whereby they of the vale that were not drowned,
perished for want of food and other things necessary.

"So as marvel you not at the thin population of America, nor at the
rudeness and ignorance of the people; for you must account your
inhabitants of America as a young people; younger a thousand years, at
the least, than the rest of the world: for that there was so much time
between the universal flood and their particular inundation.  For the
poor remnant of human seed, which remained in their mountains, peopled
the country again slowly, by little and little; and being simple and
savage people, (not like Noah and his sons, which was the chief family
of the earth;) they were not able to leave letters, arts, and civility
to their posterity; and having likewise in their mountainous
habitations been used (in respect of the extreme cold of those regions)
to clothe themselves with the skins of tigers, bears, and great hairy
goats, that they have in those parts; when after they came down into
the valley, and found the intolerable heats which are there, and knew
no means of lighter apparel, they were forced to begin the custom of
going naked, which continueth at this day.  Only they take great pride
and delight in the feathers of birds; and this also they took from
those their ancestors of the mountains, who were invited unto it by the
infinite flights of birds that came up to the high grounds, while the
waters stood below.  So you see, by this main accident of time, we lost
our traffic with the Americans, with whom of, all others, in regard
they lay nearest to us, we had most commerce.

"As for the other parts of the world, it is most manifest that in the
ages following (whether it were in respect of wars, or by a natural
revolution of time,) navigation did every where greatly decay; and
specially far voyages (the rather by the use of galleys, and such
vessels as could hardly brook the ocean,) were altogether left and
omitted.  So then, that part of intercourse which could be from other
nations to sail to us, you see how it hath long since ceased; except it
were by some rare accident, as this of yours.  But now of the cessation
of that other part of intercourse, which might be by our sailing to
other nations, I must yield you some other cause.  For I cannot say (if
I shall say truly,) but our shipping, for number, strength, mariners,
pilots, and all things that appertain to navigation, is as great as
ever; and therefore why we should sit at home, I shall now give you an
account by itself: and it will draw nearer to give you satisfaction to
your principal question.

"There reigned in this land, about nineteen hundred years ago, a king,
whose memory of all others we most adore; not superstitiously, but as a
divine instrument, though a mortal man; his name was Solamona: and we
esteem him as the lawgiver of our nation.  This king had a large heart,
inscrutable for good; and was wholly bent to make his kingdom and
people happy.  He therefore, taking into consideration how sufficient
and substantive this land was to maintain itself without any aid (at
all) of the foreigner; being five thousand six hundred miles in
circuit, and of rare fertility of soil in the greatest part thereof;
and finding also the shipping of this country might be plentifully set
on work, both by fishing and by transportations from port to port, and
likewise by sailing unto some small islands that are not far from us,
and are under the crown and laws of this state; and, recalling into his
memory the happy and flourishing estate wherein this land then was; so
as it might be a thousand ways altered to the worse, but scarce any one
way to the better; thought nothing wanted to his noble and heroical
intentions, but only (as far as human foresight might reach) to give
perpetuity to that which was in his time so happily established.
Therefore amongst his other fundamental laws of this kingdom, he did
ordain the interdicts and prohibitions which we have touching entrance
of strangers; which at that time (though it was after the calamity of
America) was frequent; doubting novelties, and commixture of manners.
It is true, the like law against the admission of strangers without
licence is an ancient law in the kingdom of China, and yet continued in
use.  But there it is a poor thing; and hath made them a curious,
ignorant, fearful, foolish nation.  But our lawgiver made his law of
another temper.  For first, he hath preserved all points of humanity,
in taking order and making provision for the relief of strangers
distressed; whereof you have tasted."

At which speech (as reason was) we all rose up and bowed ourselves. He
went on.

"That king also, still desiring to join humanity and policy together;
and thinking it against humanity, to detain strangers here against
their wills, and against policy that they should return and discover
their knowledge of this estate, he took this course: he did ordain that
of the strangers that should be permitted to land, as many (at all
times) might depart as would; but as many as would stay should have
very good conditions and means to live from the state.  Wherein he saw
so far, that now in so many ages since the prohibition, we have memory
not of one ship that ever returned, and but of thirteen persons only,
at several times, that chose to return in our bottoms.  What those few
that returned may have reported abroad I know not.  But you must think,
whatsoever they have said could be taken where they came but for a
dream.  Now for our travelling from henna into parts abroad, our
Lawgiver thought fit altogether to restrain it.  So is it not in China.
For the Chinese sail where they will or can; which sheweth that their
law of keeping out strangers is a law of pusillanimity and fear.  But
this restraint of ours hath one only exception, which is admirable;
preserving the good which cometh by communicating with strangers, and
avoiding the hurt; and I will now open it to you.  And here I shall
seem a little to digress, but you will by and by find it pertinent.

"Ye shall understand (my dear friends) that amongst the excellent acts
of that king, one above all hath the pre-eminence.  It was the erection
and institution of an Order or Society, which we call Salomon's House;
the noblest foundation (as we think) that ever was upon the earth; and
the lanthorn of this kingdom.  It is dedicated to the study of the
works and creatures of God.  Some think it beareth the founder's name a
little corrupted, as if it should be Solamona's House.  But the records
write it as it is spoken.  So as I take it to be denominate of the king
of the Hebrews, which is famous with you, and no stranger to us.  For
we have some parts of his works, which with you are lost; namely, that
natural history, which he wrote, of all plants, from the cedar of
Libanus to the moss that groweth out of the wall, and of all things
that have life and motion.  This maketh me think that our king, finding
himself to symbolize in many things with that king of the Hebrews
(which lived many years before him), honored him with the title of this
foundation.  And I am rather induced to be of this opinion, for that I
find in ancient records this Order or Society is sometimes called
Salomon's House, and sometimes the College of the Six Days Works;
whereby I am satisfied that our excellent king had learned from the
Hebrews that God had created the world and all that therein is within
six days: and therefore he instituting that House for the finding out
of the true nature of all things, (whereby God might have the more
glory in the workmanship of them, and insert the more fruit in the use
of them), did give it also that second name.

"But now to come to our present purpose.  When the king had forbidden
to all his people navigation into any part that was not under his
crown, he made nevertheless this ordinance; that every twelve years
there should be set forth, out of this kingdom two ships, appointed to
several voyages; That in either of these ships there should be a
mission of three of the Fellows or Brethren of Salomon's House; whose
errand was only to give us knowledge of the affairs and state of those
countries to which they were designed, and especially of the sciences,
arts, manufactures, and inventions of all the world; and withal to
bring unto us books, instruments, and patterns in every kind: That the
ships, after they had landed the brethren, should return; and that the
brethren should stay abroad till the new mission.  These ships are not
otherwise fraught, than with store of victuals, and good quantity of
treasure to remain with the brethren, for the buying of such things and
rewarding of such persons as they should think fit.  Now for me to tell
you how the vulgar sort of mariners are contained from being discovered
at land; and how they that must be put on shore for any time, color
themselves under the names of other nations; and to what places these
voyages have been designed; and what places of rendezvous are appointed
for the new missions; and the like circumstances of the practique; I
may not do it: neither is it much to your desire.  But thus you see we
maintain a trade not for gold, silver, or jewels; nor for silks; nor
for spices; nor any other commodity of matter; but only for God's first
creature, which was Light: to have light (I say) of the growth of all
parts of the world."

And when he had said this, he was silent; and so were we all.  For
indeed we were all astonished to hear so strange things so probably
told.  And he, perceiving that we were willing to say somewhat but had
it not ready in great courtesy took us off, and descended to ask us
questions of our voyage and fortunes and in the end concluded, that we
might do well to think with ourselves what time of stay we would demand
of the state; and bade us not to scant ourselves; for he would procure
such time as we desired: Whereupon we all rose up, and presented
ourselves to kiss the skirt of his tippet; but he would not suffer us;
and so took his leave.  But when it came once amongst our people that
the state used to offer conditions to strangers that would stay, we had
work enough to get any of our men to look to our ship; and to keep them
from going presently to the governor to crave conditions.  But with
much ado we refrained them, till we might agree what course to take.

We took ourselves now for free men, seeing there was no danger of our
utter perdition; and lived most joyfully, going abroad and seeing what
was to be seen in the city and places adjacent within our tedder; and
obtaining acquaintance with many of the city, not of the meanest
quality; at whose hands we found such humanity, and such a freedom and
desire to take strangers as it were into their bosom, as was enough to
make us forget all that was dear to us in our own countries: and
continually we met with many things right worthy of observation and
relation: as indeed, if there be a mirror in the world worthy to hold
men's eyes, it is that country.

One day there were two of our company bidden to a Feast of the Family,
as they call it.  A most natural, pious, and reverend custom it is,
shewing that nation to be compounded of all goodness.  This is the
manner of it.  It is granted to any man that shall live to see thirty
persons descended of his body alive together, and all above three years
old, to make this feast which is done at the cost of the state. The
Father of the Family, whom they call the Tirsan, two days before the
feast, taketh to him three of such friends as he liketh to choose; and
is assisted also by the governor of the city or place where the feast
is celebrated; and all the persons of the family, of both sexes, are
summoned to attend him.  These two days the Tirsan sitteth in
consultation concerning the good estate of the family.  There, if there
be any discord or suits between any of the family, they are compounded
and appeased.  There, if any of the family be distressed or decayed,
order is taken for their relief and competent means to live. There, if
any be subject to vice, or take ill courses, they are reproved and
censured.  So likewise direction is given touching marriages, and the
courses of life, which any of them should take, with divers other the
like orders and advices.  The governor assisteth, to the end to put in
execution by his public authority the decrees and orders of the Tirsan,
if they should be disobeyed; though that seldom needeth; such reverence
and obedience they give to the order of nature.  The Tirsan doth also
then ever choose one man from among his sons, to live in house with
him; who is called ever after the Son of the Vine.  The reason will
hereafter appear.

On the feast day, the father or Tirsan cometh forth after divine
service into a large room where the feast is celebrated; which room
hath an half-pace at the upper end.  Against the wall, in the middle of
the half-pace, is a chair placed for him, with a table and carpet
before it.  Over the chair is a state, made round or oval, and it is of
ivy; an ivy somewhat whiter than ours, like the leaf of a silver asp;
but more shining; for it is green all winter.  And the state is
curiously wrought with silver and silk of divers colors, broiding or
binding in the ivy; and is ever of the work of some of the daughters of
the family; and veiled over at the top with a fine net of silk and
silver.  But the substance of it is true ivy; whereof, after it is
taken down, the friends of the family are desirous to have some leaf or
sprig to keep.

The Tirsan cometh forth with all his generation or linage, the males
before him, and the females following him; and if there be a mother
from whose body the whole linage is descended, there is a traverse
placed in a loft above on the right hand of the chair, with a privy
door, and a carved window of glass, leaded with gold and blue; where
she sitteth, but is not seen.  When the Tirsan is come forth, he
sitteth down in the chair; and all the linage place themselves against
the wall, both at his back and upon the return of the half-pace, in
order of their years without difference of sex; and stand upon their
feet.  When he is set; the room being always full of company, but well
kept and without disorder; after some pause, there cometh in from the
lower end of the room, a taratan (which is as much as an herald) and on
either side of him two young lads; whereof one carrieth a scroll of
their shining yellow parchment; and the other a cluster of grapes of
gold, with a long foot or stalk.  The herald and children are clothed
with mantles of sea-water green satin; but the herald's mantle is
streamed with gold, and hath a train.

Then the herald with three curtesies, or rather inclinations, cometh up
as far as the half-pace; and there first taketh into his hand the
scroll.  This scroll is the king's charter, containing gifts of
revenew, and many privileges, exemptions, and points of honour, granted
to the Father of the Family; and is ever styled and directed, To such
do one our well beloved friend and creditor: which is a title proper
only to this case.  For they say the king is debtor to no man, but for
propagation of his subjects.  The seal set to the king's charter is the
king's image, imbossed or moulded in gold; and though such charters be
expedited of course, and as of right, yet they are varied by
discretion, according to the number and dignity of the family.  This
charter the herald readeth aloud; and while it is read, the father or
Tirsan standeth up supported by two of his sons, such as he chooseth.
Then the herald mounteth the half-pace and delivereth the charter into
his hand: and with that there is an acclamation by all that are present
in their language, which is thus much: Happy are the people of Bensalem.

Then the herald taketh into his hand from the other child the cluster
of grapes, which is of gold, both the stalk and the grapes.  But the
grapes are daintily enamelled; and if the males of the family be the
greater number, the grapes are enamelled purple, with a little sun set
on the top; if the females, then they are enamelled into a greenish
yellow, with a crescent on the top.  The grapes are in number as many
as there are descendants of the family.  This golden cluster the herald
delivereth also to the Tirsan; who presently delivereth it over to that
son that he had formerly chosen to be in house with him: who beareth it
before his father as an ensign of honour when he goeth in public, ever
after; and is thereupon called the Son of the Vine.

After the ceremony endeth the father or Tirsan retireth; and after some
time cometh forth again to dinner, where he sitteth alone under the
state, as before; and none of his descendants sit with him, of what
degree or dignity soever, except he hap to be of Salomon's House. He is
served only by his own children, such as are male; who perform unto him
all service of the table upon the knee; and the women only stand about
him, leaning against the wall.  The room below the half-pace hath
tables on the sides for the guests that are bidden; who are served with
great and comely order; and towards the end of dinner (which in the
greatest feasts with them lasteth never above an hour and an half)
there is an hymn sung, varied according to the invention of him that
composeth it (for they have excellent posy) but the subject of it is
(always) the praises of Adam and Noah and Abraham; whereof the former
two peopled the world, and the last was the Father of the Faithful:
concluding ever with a thanksgiving for the nativity of our Saviour, in
whose birth the births of all are only blessed.

Dinner being done, the Tirsan retireth again; and having withdrawn
himself alone into a place, where he makes some private prayers, he
cometh forth the third time, to give the blessing with all his
descendants, who stand about him as at the first.  Then he calleth them
forth by one and by one, by name, as he pleaseth, though seldom the
order of age be inverted.  The person that is called (the table being
before removed) kneeleth down before the chair, and the father layeth
his hand upon his head, or her head, and giveth the blessing in these
words: Son of Bensalem, (or daughter of Bensalem,) thy father with it:
the man by whom thou hast breath and life speaketh the word: the
blessing of the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, and the Holy
Dove, be upon thee, and make the days of thy pilgrimage good and many.
This he saith to every of them; and that done, if there be any of his
sons of eminent merit and virtue, (so they be not above two,) he
calleth for them again; and saith, laying his arm over their shoulders,
they standing; Sons, it is well ye are born, give God the praise, and
persevere to the end.  And withall delivereth to either of them a
jewel, made in the figure of an ear of wheat, which they ever after
wear in the front of their turban or hat.  This done, they fall to
music and dances, and other recreations, after their manner, for the
rest of the day.  This is the full order of that feast.

By that time six or seven days were spent, I was fallen into straight
acquaintance with a merchant of that city, whose name was Joabin.  He
was a Jew and circumcised: for they have some few stirps of Jews yet
remaining among them, whom they leave to their own religion.  Which
they may the better do, because they are of a far differing disposition
from the Jews in other parts.  For whereas they hate the name of
Christ; and have a secret inbred rancour against the people among whom
they live: these (contrariwise) give unto our Saviour many high
attributes, and love the nation of Bensalem extremely.  Surely this man
of whom I speak would ever acknowledge that Christ was born of a virgin
and that he was more than a man; and he would tell how God made him
ruler of the seraphims which guard his throne; and they call him also
the Milken Way, and the Eliah of the Messiah; and many other high
names; which though they be inferior to his divine majesty, yet they
are far from the language of other Jews.

And for the country of Bensalem, this man would make no end of
commending it; being desirous, by tradition among the Jews there, to
have it believed that the people thereof were of the generations of
Abraham, by another son, whom they call Nachoran; and that Moses by a
secret Cabala ordained the Laws of Bensalem which they now use; and
that when the Messiah should come, and sit in his throne at Hierusalem,
the king of Bensalem should sit at his feet, whereas other kings should
keep a great distance.  But yet setting aside these Jewish dreams, the
man was a wise man, and learned, and of great policy, and excellently
seen in the laws and customs of that nation.

Amongst other discourses, one day I told him I was much affected with
the relation I had, from some of the company, of their custom, in
holding the Feast of the Family; for that (methought) I had never heard
of a solemnity wherein nature did so much preside.  And because
propagation of families proceedeth from the nuptial copulation, I
desired to know of him what laws and customs they had concerning
marriage; and whether they kept marriage well and whether they were
tied to one wife; for that where population is so much affected,' and
such as with them it seemed to be, there is commonly permission of
plurality of wives.

To this he said, "You have reason for to commend that excellent
institution of the Feast of the Family.  And indeed we have experience
that those families that are partakers of the blessing of that feast do
flourish and prosper ever after in an extraordinary manner.  But hear
me now, and I will tell you what I know.  You shall understand that
there is not under the heavens so chaste a nation as this of Bensalem;
nor so free from all pollution or foulness.  It is the virgin of the
world.  I remember I have read in one of your European books, of an
holy hermit amongst you that desired to see the Spirit of Fornication;
and there appeared to him a little foul ugly Aethiop. But if he had
desired to see the Spirit of Chastity of Bensalem, it would have
appeared to him in the likeness of a fair beautiful Cherubim.  For
there is nothing amongst mortal men more fair and admirable, than the
chaste minds of this people.  Know therefore, that with them there are
no stews, no dissolute houses, no courtesans, nor anything of that
kind.  Nay they wonder (with detestation) at you in Europe, which
permit such things.  They say ye have put marriage out of office: for
marriage is ordained a remedy for unlawful concupiscence; and natural
concupiscence seemeth as a spar to marriage. But when men have at hand
a remedy more agreeable to their corrupt will, marriage is almost
expulsed.  And therefore there are with you seen infinite men that
marry not, but chose rather a libertine and impure single life, than to
be yoked in marriage; and many that do marry, marry late, when the
prime and strength of their years is past. And when they do marry, what
is marriage to them but a very bargain; wherein is sought alliance, or
portion, or reputation, with some desire (almost indifferent) of issue;
and not the faithful nuptial union of man and wife, that was first
instituted.  Neither is it possible that those that have cast away so
basely so much of their strength, should greatly esteem children,
(being of the same matter,) as chaste men do.  So likewise during
marriage, is the case much amended, as it ought to be if those things
were tolerated only for necessity?  No, but they remain still as a very
affront to marriage. The haunting of those dissolute places, or resort
to courtesans, are no more punished in married men than in bachelors.
And the depraved custom of change, and the delight in meretricious
embracements, (where sin is turned into art,) maketh marriage a dull
thing, and a kind of imposition or tax.  They hear you defend these
things, as done to avoid greater evils; as advoutries, deflowering of
virgins, unnatural lust, and the like.  But they say this is a
preposterous wisdom; and they call it Lot's offer, who to save his
guests from abusing, offered his daughters: nay they say farther that
there is little gained in this; for that the same vices and appetites
do still remain and abound; unlawful lust being like a furnace, that if
you stop the flames altogether, it will quench; but if you give it any
vent, it will rage. As for masculine love, they have no touch of it;
and yet there are not so faithful and inviolate friendships in the
world again as are there; and to speak generally, (as I said before,) I
have not read of any such chastity, in any people as theirs.  And their
usual saying is, That whosoever is unchaste cannot reverence himself;
and they say, That the reverence of a man's self, is, next to religion,
the chiefest bridle of all vices."

And when he had said this, the good Jew paused a little; whereupon I,
far more willing to hear him speak on than to speak myself, yet
thinking it decent that upon his pause of speech I should not be
altogether silent, said only this; "That I would say to him, as the
widow of Sarepta said to Elias; that he was come to bring to memory our
sins; and that I confess the righteousness of Bensalem was greater than
the righteousness of Europe."  At which speech he bowed his head, and
went on in this manner:

"They have also many wise and excellent laws touching marriage.  They
allow no polygamy.  They have ordained that none do intermarry or
contract, until a month be past from their first interview.  Marriage
without consent of parents they do not make void, but they mulct it in
the inheritors: for the children of such marriages are not admitted to
inherit above a third part of their parents' inheritance.  I have read
in a book of one of your men, of a Feigned Commonwealth, where the
married couple are permitted, before they contract, to see one another
naked.  This they dislike; for they think it a scorn to give a refusal
after so familiar knowledge: but because of many hidden defects in men
and women's bodies, they have a more civil way; for they have near
every town a couple of pools, (which they call Adam and Eve's pools,)
where it is permitted to one of the friends of the men, and another of
the friends of the woman, to see them severally bathe naked."

And as we were thus in conference, there came one that seemed to be a
messenger, in a rich huke, that spake with the Jew: whereupon he turned
to me and said; "You will pardon me, for I am commanded away in haste."
The next morning he came to me again, joyful as it seemed, and said;
"There is word come to the Governor of the city, that one of the
Fathers of Salomon's House will be here this day seven-night: we have
seen none of them this dozen years.  His coming is in state; but the
cause of his coming is secret.  I will provide you and your fellows of
a good standing to see his entry."  I thanked him, and told him, I was
most glad of the news.

The day being come, he made his entry.  He was a man of middle stature
and age, comely of person, and had an aspect as if he pitied men.  He
was clothed in a robe of fine black cloth, with wide sleeves and a
cape.  His under garment was of excellent white linen down to the foot,
girt with a girdle of the same; and a sindon or tippet of the same
about his neck.  He had gloves, that were curious,'' and set with
stone; and shoes of peach-coloured velvet.  His neck was bare to the
shoulders.  His hat was like a helmet, or Spanish montera; and his
locks curled below it decently: they were of colour brown.  His beard
was cut round, and of the same colour with his hair, somewhat lighter.
He was carried in a rich chariot without wheels, litter-wise; with two
horses at either end, richly trapped in blue velvet embroidered; and
two footmen on each side in the like attire.  The chariot was all of
cedar, gilt, and adorned with crystal; save that the fore-end had
panels of sapphires, set in borders of gold; and the hinder-end the
like of emeralds of the Peru colour.  There was also a sun of gold,
radiant, upon the top, in the midst; and on the top before, a small
cherub of gold, with wings displayed.  The chariot was covered with
cloth of gold tissued upon blue.  He had before him fifty attendants,
young men all, in white satin loose coats to the mid leg; and stockings
of white silk; and shoes of blue velvet; and hats of blue velvet; with
fine plumes of diverse colours, set round like hat-bands. Next before
the chariot, went two men, bare-headed, in linen garments down the
foot, girt, and shoes of blue velvet; who carried, the one a crosier,
the other a pastoral staff like a sheep-hook; neither of them of metal,
but the crosier of balm-wood, the pastoral staff of cedar. Horsemen he
had none, neither before nor behind his chariot: as it seemeth, to
avoid all tumult and trouble.  Behind his chariot went all the officers
and principals of the companies of the city.  He sat alone, upon
cushions of a kind of excellent plush, blue; and under his foot curious
carpets of silk of diverse colours, like the Persian, but far finer.
He held up his bare hand as he went, as blessing the people, but in
silence.  The street was wonderfully well kept: so that there was never
any army had their men stand in better battle-array than the people
stood.  The windows likewise were not crowded, but every one stood in
them as if they had been placed.

When the shew was past, the Jew said to me; "I shall not be able to
attend you as I would, in regard of some charge the city hath laid upon
me, for the entertaining of this great person."  Three days after the
Jew came to me again, and said; "Ye are happy men; for the Father of
Salomon's House taketh knowledge of your being here, and commanded me
to tell you that he will admit all your company to his presence, and
have private conference with one of you, that ye shall choose: and for
this hath appointed the next day after to-morrow.  And because he
meaneth to give you his blessing, he hath appointed it in the forenoon."

We came at our day and hour, and I was chosen by my fellows for the
private access.  We found him in a fair chamber, richly hanged, and
carpeted under foot without any degrees to the state.  He was set upon
a low Throne richly adorned, and a rich cloth of state over his head,
of blue satin embroidered.  He was alone, save that he had two pages of
honour, on either hand one, finely attired in white.  His under
garments were the like that we saw him wear in the chariot; but instead
of his gown, he had on him a mantle with a cape, of the same fine
black, fastened about him.  When we came in, as we were taught, we
bowed low at our first entrance; and when we were come near his chair,
he stood up, holding forth his hand ungloved, and in posture of
blessing; and we every one of us stooped down, and kissed the hem of
his tippet.  That done, the rest departed, and I remained.  Then he
warned the pages forth of the room, and caused me to sit down beside
him, and spake to me thus in the Spanish tongue.

"God bless thee, my son; I will give thee the greatest jewel I have.
For I will impart unto thee, for the love of God and men, a relation of
the true state of Salomon's House.  Son, to make you know the true
state of Salomon's House, I will keep this order.  First, I will set
forth unto you the end of our foundation.  Secondly, the preparations
and instruments we have for our works.  Thirdly, the several
employments and functions whereto our fellows are assigned.  And
fourthly, the ordinances and rites which we observe.

"The end of our foundation is the knowledge of causes, and secret
motions of things; and the enlarging of the bounds of human empire, to
the effecting of all things possible.

"The Preparations and Instruments are these.  We have large and deep
caves of several depths: the deepest are sunk six hundred fathom: and
some of them are digged and made under great hills and mountains: so
that if you reckon together the depth of the hill and the depth of the
cave, they are (some of them) above three miles deep.  For we find,
that the depth of a hill, and the depth of a cave from the flat, is the
same thing; both remote alike, from the sun and heaven's beams, and
from the open air.  These caves we call the Lower Region; and we use
them for all coagulations, indurations, refrigerations, and
conservations of bodies.  We use them likewise for the imitation of
natural mines; and the producing also of new artificial metals, by
compositions and materials which we use, and lay there for many years.
We use them also sometimes, (which may seem strange,) for curing of
some diseases, and for prolongation of life in some hermits that choose
to live there, well accommodated of all things necessary, and indeed
live very long; by whom also we learn many things.

"We have burials in several earths, where we put diverse cements, as
the Chineses do their porcellain.  But we have them in greater variety,
and some of them more fine.  We have also great variety of composts and
soils, for the making of the earth fruitful.

"We have high towers; the highest about half a mile in height; and some
of them likewise set upon high mountains; so that the vantage of the
hill with the tower is in the highest of them three miles at least. And
these places we call the Upper Region; accounting the air between the
high places and the low, as a Middle Region.  We use these towers,
according to their several heights, and situations, for insolation,
refrigeration, conservation; and for the view of divers meteors; as
winds, rain, snow, hail; and some of the fiery meteors also.  And upon
them, in some places, are dwellings of hermits, whom we visit
sometimes, and instruct what to observe.

"We have great lakes, both salt, and fresh; whereof we have use for the
fish and fowl.  We use them also for burials of some natural bodies:
for we find a difference in things buried in earth or in air below the
earth, and things buried in water.  We have also pools, of which some
do strain fresh water out of salt; and others by art do turn fresh
water into salt.  We have also some rocks in the midst of the sea, and
some bays upon the shore for some works, wherein is required the air
and vapor of the sea.  We have likewise violent streams and cataracts,
which serve us for many motions: and likewise engines for multiplying
and enforcing of winds, to set also on going diverse motions.

"We have also a number of artificial wells and fountains, made in
imitation of the natural sources and baths; as tincted upon vitriol,
sulphur, steel, brass, lead, nitre, and other minerals.  And again we
have little wells for infusions of many things, where the waters take
the virtue quicker and better, than in vessels or basins.  And amongst
them we have a water which we call Water of Paradise, being, by that we
do to it made very sovereign for health, and prolongation of life.

"We have also great and spacious houses where we imitate and
demonstrate meteors; as snow, hail, rain, some artificial rains of
bodies and not of water, thunders, lightnings; also generations of
bodies in air; as frogs, flies, and divers others.

"We have also certain chambers, which we call Chambers of Health, where
we qualify the air as we think good and proper for the cure of divers
diseases, and preservation of health.

"We have also fair and large baths, of several mixtures, for the cure
of diseases, and the restoring of man's body from arefaction: and
others for the confirming of it in strength of sinewes, vital parts,
and the very juice and substance of the body.

"We have also large and various orchards and gardens; wherein we do not
so much respect beauty, as variety of ground and soil, proper for
divers trees and herbs: and some very spacious, where trees and berries
are set whereof we make divers kinds of drinks, besides the vineyards.
In these we practise likewise all conclusions of grafting, and
inoculating as well of wild-trees as fruit-trees, which produceth many
effects.  And we make (by art) in the same orchards and gardens, trees
and flowers to come earlier or later than their seasons; and to come up
and bear more speedily than by their natural course they do. We make
them also by art greater much than their nature; and their fruit
greater and sweeter and of differing taste, smell, colour, and figure,
from their nature.  And many of them we so order, as they become of
medicinal use.

"We have also means to make divers plants rise by mixtures of earths
without seeds; and likewise to make divers new plants, differing from
the vulgar; and to make one tree or plant turn into another.

"We have also parks and enclosures of all sorts of beasts and birds
which we use not only for view or rareness, but likewise for
dissections and trials; that thereby we may take light what may be
wrought upon the body of man.  Wherein we find many strange effects; as
continuing life in them, though divers parts, which you account vital,
be perished and taken forth; resuscitating of some that seem dead in
appearance; and the like.  We try also all poisons and other medicines
upon them, as well of chirurgery, as physic.  By art likewise, we make
them greater or taller than their kind is; and contrariwise dwarf them,
and stay their growth: we make them more fruitful and bearing than
their kind is; and contrariwise barren and not generative.  Also we
make them differ in colour, shape, activity, many ways.  We find means
to make commixtures and copulations of different kinds; which have
produced many new kinds, and them not barren, as the general opinion
is.  We make a number of kinds of serpents, worms, flies, fishes, of
putrefaction; whereof some are advanced (in effect) to be perfect
creatures, like bests or birds; and have sexes, and do propagate.
Neither do we this by chance, but we know beforehand, of what matter
and commixture what kind of those creatures will arise.

"We have also particular pools, where we make trials upon fishes, as we
have said before of beasts and birds.

"We have also places for breed and generation of those kinds of worms
and flies which are of special use; such as are with you your
silk-worms and bees.

"I will not hold you long with recounting of our brewhouses,
bake-houses, and kitchens, where are made divers drinks, breads, and
meats, rare and of special effects.  Wines we have of grapes; and
drinks of other juice of fruits, of grains, and of roots; and of
mixtures with honey, sugar, manna, and fruits dried, and decocted; Also
of the tears or woundings of trees; and of the pulp of canes. And these
drinks are of several ages, some to the age or last of forty years.  We
have drinks also brewed with several herbs, and roots, and spices; yea
with several fleshes, and white-meats; whereof some of the drinks are
such, as they are in effect meat and drink both: so that divers,
especially in age, do desire to live with them, with little or no meat
or bread.  And above all, we strive to have drink of extreme thin
parts, to insinuate into the body, and yet without all biting,
sharpness, or fretting; insomuch as some of them put upon the back of
your hand will, with a little stay, pass through to the palm, and yet
taste mild to the mouth.  We have also waters which we ripen in that
fashion, as they become nourishing; so that they are indeed excellent
drink; and many will use no other.  Breads we have of several grains,
roots, and kernels; yea and some of flesh and fish dried; with divers
kinds of leavenings and seasonings: so that some do extremely move
appetites; some do nourish so, as divers do live of them, without any
other meat; who live very long.  So for meats, we have some of them so
beaten and made tender and mortified,' yet without all corrupting, as a
weak heat of the stomach will turn them into good chylus; as well as a
strong heat would meat otherwise prepared.  We have some meats also and
breads and drinks, which taken by men enable them to fast long after;
and some other, that used make the very flesh of men's bodies sensibly'
more hard and tough and their strength far greater than otherwise it
would be.

"We have dispensatories, or shops of medicines.  Wherein you may easily
think, if we have such variety of plants and living creatures more than
you have in Europe, (for we know what you have,) the simples, drugs,
and ingredients of medicines, must likewise be in so much the greater
variety.  We have them likewise of divers ages, and long fermentations.
And for their preparations, we have not only all manner of exquisite
distillations and separations, and especially by gentle heats and
percolations through divers strainers, yea and substances; but also
exact forms of composition, whereby they incorporate almost, as they
were natural simples.

"We have also divers mechanical arts, which you have not; and stuffs
made by them; as papers, linen, silks, tissues; dainty works of
feathers of wonderful lustre; excellent dies, and, many others; and
shops likewise, as well for such as are not brought into vulgar use
amongst us as for those that are.  For you must know that of the things
before recited, many of them are grown into use throughout the kingdom;
but yet, if they did flow from our invention, we have of them also for
patterns and principals.

"We have also furnaces of great diversities, and that keep great
diversity of heats; fierce and quick; strong and constant; soft and
mild; blown, quiet; dry, moist; and the like.  But above all, we have
heats, in imitation of the Sun's and heavenly bodies' heats, that pass
divers inequalities, and (as it were) orbs, progresses, and returns,
whereby we produce admirable effects.  Besides, we have heats of dungs;
and of bellies and maws of living creatures, and of their bloods and
bodies; and of hays and herbs laid up moist; of lime unquenched; and
such like.  Instruments also which generate heat only by motion.  And
farther, places for strong insulations; and again, places under the
earth, which by nature, or art, yield heat.  These divers heats we use,
as the nature of the operation, which we intend, requireth.

"We have also perspective-houses, where we make demonstrations of all
lights and radiations; and of all colours: and out of things uncoloured
and transparent, we can represent unto you all several colours; not in
rain-bows, (as it is in gems, and prisms,) but of themselves single.
We represent also all multiplications of light, which we carry to great
distance, and make so sharp as to discern small points and lines.  Also
all colourations of light; all delusions and deceits of the sight, in
figures, magnitudes, motions, colours all demonstrations of shadows.
We find also divers means, yet unknown to you, of producing of light
originally from divers bodies.  We procure means of seeing objects afar
off; as in the heaven and remote places; and represent things near as
afar off; and things afar off as near; making feigned distances.  We
have also helps for the sight, far above spectacles and glasses in use.
We have also glasses and means to see small and minute bodies perfectly
and distinctly; as the shapes and colours of small flies and worms,
grains and flaws in gems, which cannot otherwise be seen, observations
in urine and blood not otherwise to be seen.  We make artificial
rain-bows, halo's, and circles about light.  We represent also all
manner of reflexions, refractions, and multiplications of visual beams
of objects.

"We have also precious stones of all kinds, many of them of great
beauty, and to you unknown; crystals likewise; and glasses of divers
kinds; and amongst them some of metals vitrificated, and other
materials besides those of which you make glass.  Also a number of
fossils, and imperfect minerals, which you have not.  Likewise
loadstones of prodigious virtue; and other rare stones, both natural
and artificial.

"We have also sound-houses, where we practise and demonstrate all
sounds, and their generation.  We have harmonies which you have not, of
quarter-sounds, and lesser slides of sounds.  Divers instruments of
music likewise to you unknown, some sweeter than any you have, together
with bells and rings that are dainty and sweet.  We represent small
sounds as great and deep; likewise great sounds extenuate and sharp; we
make divers tremblings and warblings of sounds, which in their original
are entire.  We represent and imitate all articulate sounds and
letters, and the voices and notes of beasts and birds.  We have certain
helps which set to the ear do further the hearing greatly. We have also
divers strange and artificial echoes, reflecting the voice many times,
and as it were tossing it: and some that give back the voice louder
than it came, some shriller, and some deeper; yea, some rendering the
voice differing in the letters or articulate sound from that they
receive.  We have also means to convey sounds in trunks and pipes, in
strange lines and distances.

"We have also perfume-houses; wherewith we join also practices of
taste.  We multiply smells, which may seem strange.  We imitate smells,
making all smells to breathe outs of other mixtures than those that
give them.  We make divers imitations of taste likewise, so that they
will deceive any man's taste.  And in this house we contain also a
confiture-house; where we make all sweet-meats, dry and moist; and
divers pleasant wines, milks, broths, and sallets; in far greater
variety than you have.

"We have also engine-houses, where are prepared engines and instruments
for all sorts of motions.  There we imitate and practise to make
swifter motions than any you have, either out of your muskets or any
engine that you have: and to make them and multiply them more easily,
and with small force, by wheels and other means: and to make them
stronger and more violent than yours are; exceeding your greatest
cannons and basilisks.  We represent also ordnance and instruments of
war, and engines of all kinds: and likewise new mixtures and
compositions of gun-powder, wild-fires burning in water, and
unquenchable.  Also fireworks of all variety both for pleasure and use.
We imitate also flights of birds; we have some degrees of flying in the
air.  We have ships and boats for going under water, and brooking of
seas; also swimming-girdles and supporters.  We have divers curious
clocks, and other like motions of return: and some perpetual motions.
We imitate also motions of living creatures, by images, of men, beasts,
birds, fishes, and serpents.  We have also a great number of other
various motions, strange for equality, fineness, and subtilty.

"We have also a mathematical house, where are represented all
instruments, as well of geometry as astronomy, exquisitely made.

"We have also houses of deceits of the senses; where we represent all
manner of feats of juggling, false apparitions, impostures, and
illusions; and their fallacies.  And surely you will easily believe
that we that have so many things truly natural which induce admiration,
could in a world of particulars deceive the senses, if we would
disguise those things and labour to make them seem more miraculous. But
we do hate all impostures, and lies; insomuch as we have severely
forbidden it to all our fellows, under pain of ignominy and fines, that
they do not show any natural work or thing, adorned or swelling; but
only pure as it is, and without all affectation of strangeness.

"These are (my son) the riches of Salomon's House.

"For the several employments and offices of our fellows; we have twelve
that sail into foreign countries, under the names of other nations,
(for our own we conceal); who bring us the books, and abstracts, and
patterns of experiments of all other parts.  These we call Merchants of
Light.

"We have three that collect the experiments which are in all books.
These we call Depredators.

"We have three that collect the experiments of all mechanical arts; and
also of liberal sciences; and also of practices which are not brought
into arts.  These we call Mystery-men.

"We have three that try new experiments, such as themselves think good.
These we call Pioneers or Miners.

"We have three that draw the experiments of the former four into titles
and tables, to give the better light for the drawing of observations
and axioms out of them.  These we call Compilers.

"We have three that bend themselves, looking into the experiments of
their fellows, and cast about how to draw out of them things of use and
practise for man's life, and knowledge, as well for works as for plain
demonstration of causes, means of natural divinations, and the easy and
clear discovery of the virtues and parts of bodies.  These we call
Dowry-men or Benefactors.

"Then after divers meetings and consults of our whole number, to
consider of the former labours and collections, we have three that take
care, out of them, to direct new experiments, of a higher light, more
penetrating into nature than the former.  These we call Lamps.

"We have three others that do execute the experiments so directed, and
report them.  These we call Inoculators.

"Lastly, we have three that raise the former discoveries by experiments
into greater observations, axioms, and aphorisms.  These we call
Interpreters of Nature.

"We have also, as you must think, novices and apprentices, that the
succession of the former employed men do not fail; besides, a great
number of servants and attendants, men and women.  And this we do also:
we have consultations, which of the inventions and experiences which we
have discovered shall be published, and which not: and take all an oath
of secrecy, for the concealing of those which we think fit to keep
secret: though some of those we do reveal sometimes to the state and
some not.

"For our ordinances and rites: we have two very long and fair
galleries: in one of these we place patterns and samples of all manner
of the more rare and excellent inventions in the other we place the
statues of all principal inventors.  There we have the statue of your
Columbus, that discovered the West Indies: also the inventor of ships:
your monk that was the inventor of ordnance and of gunpowder: the
inventor of music: the inventor of letters: the inventor of printing:
the inventor of observations of astronomy: the inventor of works in
metal: the inventor of glass: the inventor of silk of the worm: the
inventor of wine: the inventor of corn and bread: the inventor of
sugars: and all these, by more certain tradition than you have.  Then
have we divers inventors of our own, of excellent works; which since
you have not seen, it were too long to make descriptions of them; and
besides, in the right understanding of those descriptions you might
easily err.  For upon every invention of value, we erect a statue to
the inventor, and give him a liberal and honourable reward.  These
statues are some of brass; some of marble and touch-stone; some of
cedar and other special woods gilt and adorned; some of iron; some of
silver; some of gold.

"We have certain hymns and services, which we say daily, of Lord and
thanks to God for his marvellous works: and forms of prayers, imploring
his aid and blessing for the illumination of our labours, and the
turning of them into good and holy uses.

"Lastly, we have circuits or visits of divers principal cities of the
kingdom; where, as it cometh to pass, we do publish such new profitable
inventions as we think good.  And we do also declare natural
divinations of diseases, plagues, swarms-of hurtful creatures,
scarcity, tempests, earthquakes, great inundations, comets, temperature
of the year, and divers other things; and we give counsel thereupon,
what the people shall do for the prevention and remedy of them."

And when he had said this, he stood up; and I, as I had been taught,
kneeled down, and he laid his right hand upon my head, and said; "God
bless thee, my son; and God bless this relation, which I have made.  I
give thee leave to publish it for the good of other nations; for we
here are in God's bosom, a land unknown."  And so he left me; having
assigned a value of about two thousand ducats, for a bounty to me and
my fellows.  For they give great largesses where they come upon all
occasions.

[The rest was not perfected.]









End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The New Atlantis, by Frances Bacon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NEW ATLANTIS ***

***** This file should be named 2434.txt or 2434.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/3/2434/

Produced by Michael Pullen and William Fishburne. HTML
version by Al Haines.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
